Yeah right on
welcome everyone reduce child is japes
to Dromio along with JP Bouvet thanks
for coming out guys
my pleasure yeah yeah it's so let me
introduce the whole band right to the
very far end their way of Asher Asher is
a guitarist obviously as you can see I'm
in verse reciting me of Jed base and
then JP Bouvet JP you are probably one
of our most requested drummers to come
on drum yeah so I'm very thankful that
you can find the time to come out here
and grace us with your presence here
well it's an honor yeah and today's are
really cool I said this is the first
time we've actually brought in a full
band for a live lesson like this and
what a better topic then creative tools
for writing in a band we're gonna bring
the whole band don't talk about that
with you guys all here so thank you so
much
now if you guys haven't seen JP bubay
before you can check him what online he
is live on his own website which is JP
booth a music calm I believe and also
his Instagram which is just at JP Bouvet
so make sure you follow them there and
if you guys like what you just heard
with child√≠s japes find them online
basically anywhere that there's online
presence for bands right yeah you know a
lot of other japes out there yeah
childish japes @j ap es isn't it and you
guys just released an album a couple
weeks back right yep it's called after
you're born awesome you can find that
iTunes isn't everywhere else hmm very
cool so we're gonna get into the lesson
very soon just a one second to quickly
thank all the sponsors for helping make
this happen
DW Remo mile dick first sticks as well
am I missing anyone no I don't think so
and for all you guys watching us live
welcome I hope you enjoy it if you do
have questions submit them below we
might not get to all of them or many of
them depending on how long this goes but
we are doing a very cool performance
slash interview with the whole band
tomorrow which will be live as well so
if we don't get to them today we can get
to them tomorrow so that being said
creative tools or yeah creative tools
for writing in a band taking right on
yeah
all right so creative tools are running
with the band this
the reason that we particularly were
very excited about this topic on dromio
is that this band is a very
collaborative musical entity of the if
you listen to the first album actually
all of the tracks on that album were
spawned from jams either me and Asher me
and Jed or the three of us together and
then you know we had this great
chemistry as we were starting to play
together we were thinking let go maybe
we should make a band out of this and
make it real so all those are born from
jams and us just improvising and
creating in the moment or being inspired
by something we heard recently and
although jamming has this sort of like
laid-back like anything goes kind of who
knows what's gonna happen
vibe that goes along with it there is a
lot more intent that can be put into the
writing process and the jamming process
and the creating process in general that
will make those sessions more fruitful
and that's really the goal of this next
hour is to hopefully give you guys some
fuel whether you play in a band or not I
actually just give you guys some fuel to
to expand your creativity and just get
you thinking and maybe a different way
to bring some new ideas into the picture
so that's what we're dealing with
there's one mental image I want to plant
here in the beginning of the lesson that
I'm going to refer back to several times
and I call it a web of intent now the
web of intent you have to just use your
imagination here in the middle is
something I call the gray area the gray
area is not particularly anything it's
not too loud too soft too fast too slow
too busy too empty it's kind of like
what you accidentally do when you start
playing the drums it's it's fairly
uninspired and it's a dangerous area
because if you stay there too long
things get very old very quickly and
it's just not sort of remarkable anyway
so now that's the center of our web here
and I want you to imagine an arrow going
out this way and an opposite arrow going
the other direction and at the edge at
the end of those arrows are two op
adjectives of your choosing right the
easiest one here fast slow you can
imagine this way loud soft you can
imagine this way busy empty another
example could be all the instruments
playing one instrument play and this
works for anything right one that I hope
we explore or hope we have time to
explore in this masterclass would be
evil and what's the opposite of evil
angelic good yeah evil and good right
that would inspire different musical
ideas so in this case what we're
thinking is okay we're getting together
to play we want to be creative maybe we
have an idea maybe we don't but wherever
we start we'll probably eventually
become the gray area so you want to be
moving these ideas in some direction or
another and that kind of imagery really
helps me not only in the performance
space but in the practice room to think
what could I do with this idea to make
it more interesting and coincidentally
you'll probably find as you do that some
things that you could also go practice
right if you're taking a groove anything
I want to make this busier you're gonna
hit a wall at some point and that's
where you find the things that you could
practice next so the web of intent will
come back with but that's that's uh yeah
this overarching idea there and the
first specific tool we want to deal with
here is subtraction so this was the
first thing that came to mind when Dave
and I were talking about this topic for
for dromio because there's a very
specific concert I remember watching I
was just a random band from Finland that
was playing at this little Club in New
York and it was like a pop synth band
and I remember watching an entire 45
minutes set and just being exhausted by
the end and I realized at the end that
all I wanted the whole time was for one
person to stop playing because synth is
really in your face in its constants
you've got a synth player a synth bass
player a drummer and a singer who's also
playing a synth and if they're all
playing all the time it's just way too
much so the easiest
you can do to make an impact is subtract
something so in this case a simple
example in the drums without without
even the band is is this
[Music]
all right so I don't have to change
anything I just take one thing out and
it makes a pretty big difference so a
couple different types of subtraction
that we can do here and we'll
demonstrate with the band the first one
is just removing an instrument plain and
simple like okay no drums in the
pre-chorus done the other type would be
subtracting a frequency range right so
saying between the three of us no low
notes in this section or no high notes
and that's going to affect what they
play and/or who plays at all and it's
going to affect for me what instruments
I play here because the cool thing about
the drumset is we kind of have the
lowest and highest things in the musical
spectrum here so we but that gives us a
lot of responsibility to affect the
music in a certain way so let's first
let's look at subtracting an instrument
all right so let's let's get into a
groove a fairly repetitive one and then
after you drop out so yeah actually
let's improvise a song a B a a B C and
the B section a is out
[Music]
cool so two things happen there right
when Asher first dropped out I kind of
kept playing the same thing Jed kind of
kept playing the same thing but this
space was created so you can imagine
that if there's a vocalist if there's
another instrument playing a more
melodic line that would be a moment for
them to step up what they're doing and
take more space so that's one thing that
happens right there's a there's a change
in dynamic there of the overall band but
the other thing that's really cool is
that when Astra comes back in there's a
huge impact so after playing all that
time and then changing is part is cool
and impactful but after playing and then
dropping out and coming in from nothing
into a part that you haven't heard
before is that much more impactful
sounds really cool and then we could say
let's try the other version where we
subtract like the low end we do this in
like after your boy kind of the second
verse yeah okay let's let's try the
after you're born groove and then Jed
and I subtract the low end so I don't
know if that means either Jed's gonna
have to play higher or just gonna have
to drop out and then I'm gonna have to
affect what I'm doing here as well just
a purse cool just hear it cool this is a
song from the album that just came out
[Music]
[Music]
[Laughter]
[Music]
cool so I subtract the kick some I avoid
toms I keep it very quickly clicky and
high no D and jed's adjusting when he's
doing some higher notes or dropping out
all together and and that's just another
tool to sort of subtract a piece of the
frequency range there very cool so
that's number one tool number one
subtract
turn number one turn number two match
right so matching like a cool exactly I
mean this is in its simplest form who
matches with whom and what piece of the
kit matches with what they're doing or
even what piece of what they're doing
it's fairly it's might be overly common
for us to think okay kick drum has to
play with the bass is playing and that's
all so it's not necessarily the case and
AFTRA came in one day to rehearsal when
we were jamming and writing last year
with a really cool idea and he was like
okay I want your hi-hat to match what
I'm doing but I want the rest of your
kit to either match what Jed's doing or
just be playing a groove that's not
related and this already this once you
start shifting these like who's matching
with who things this leads you into
starting to break some of the the groove
rules if you will which we talked about
in the course that we did on drum you
but um you'll see what I mean here so
space yum space jam so Jordan so Astrid
came in with with this line and now the
only thing that's important here it's in
for he's playing a thing that repeats
every three bars it count for four it'll
be a lot cooler if you do and you'll
make a lot more sense once jet comes in
but so after came in with this line
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
so that there was such a simple idea but
it created such a unique groove like
we're going between two chords between
two chords two chords and I he's playing
one rhythm the whole time and then all
that happens is they change roles which
is something we'll talk about in a few
minutes but in register
yeah and register and so jet sighs
playing dududududududu and instead of
Jed holding down the chords and the
moving notes after doing that so yeah
who's matching with who is is is not
just which which like are you imagining
with a bass player of the guitar player
but you can divide up your kit to start
thinking okay do i like does my do my
hands match one number and does my kick
match the other and then it's important
about is you don't have to match anyone
which is something that again we talked
about in that course but let's quick
play that groove you're doing before
just about two or four chords or
whatever you want to do and for those
wondering we just did have filmed the
course right before this on creating
unique grooves and we talked a lot about
a boat just in more depth so you can
check that out there but this is a
little excerpt from that totally so here
I'm just emphasizing the point that you
don't need to match anyone so when I say
that matching is a tool right it's
nothing you have to do it it's saying
that gets an option and they're not
matching then therefore is also a tool
so I'm gonna play a kick drum pattern
first that matches what they're doing
and then I'm gonna play a kick drum
pattern that completely ignores what
they're doing and actually doesn't play
any of the notes so they're gonna play
ba ba ba the second groove that you'll
hear me switch to avoids both of those
notes but I think it works pretty well
and I think it's pretty cool
let's do that one too
[Music]
[Music]
sounds like spoon yeah dude doom yeah
which has nothing to do with their
rhythm but it works because it's
repeating so it's clearly intentional
and I'm avoiding the notes right next to
what they're doing because that can
sound like you're making a mistake so ya
got subtraction got matching number
three is contrast and this is a pretty
you know broad idea here but this is
where we can call back to that first
mental image we had of the web of intent
and we can as you know individuals or as
a band together think okay where are we
moving on that spectrum if what we're
doing is fairly you know mmm I was a
boring but common or boring for us sure
boring maybe one of us needs to take a
step in some direction maybe we all need
to take a step in some direction maybe
we need to move in different directions
on the same scale so let's explore this
idea a little bit one that I have in
mind here is the difference between busy
and empty because everything being busy
is just gonna be a lot to handle in most
cases which is it bet it has its place
in music but what I what I think is
really nice when I favorite like vibes
is when the drums are quite busy and the
rest of the band is just playing like
longer prettier sustained things
so let's embody that contrast between us
they're different different directions
on the spectrum here and see what sounds
like right
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
now let's see what happens if we switch
those roles or if and here's it here's a
better idea tie-in we don't we talked
about with the last two actually so
we're thinking about the difference
frequency ranges here in the drumset
what if we say high end stuff or sorry
high frequency stuff so high notes are
busy low frequency stuff is simpler cool
cool let's try it and I'm gonna I'm
gonna start simple and let them blaze
their own Trail and then I'll I'll jump
on board there so
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
6oh clearly Astra's focusing on higher
parts they're moving more quickly
there's active it doesn't mean it's
insane like shredding and soloing right
it's a beautiful part but he's just
playing at a higher subdivision a faster
subdivision Jed's hone down a beautiful
line my kicks I'm just going one maybe
something else but mainly just one and
then the idea came to me that I think is
worth mentioning is that adding these up
beats and I going to cut kept because
remember we're honest gay a sliding
scale from empty to busy here so moving
toward busy doesn't mean immediately
shedding chops right so one step more
busy on the high end of things or like
the high notes like we talked about one
step more busy is just adding some notes
so in this case those those upbeats
because initially in my mind I'm saying
okay like adds crazy stuffy but it just
felt like what after came in with was so
cool and needed it's to just be feature
that I was like okay I should definitely
stay clear of playing anything melodic
because that's covered and that's very
cool so for me it was just okay I'm just
gonna add one more texture here that
makes it a little bit more interesting
here and it makes the the I don't know
how to word this but the the inject the
digestible content a little broader
right there's one more thing to hear
mm-hmm which just adds a little bit more
interest to the whole equation yeah very
cool these are all tools that you guys
use actively when you're writing in the
shed room or in your practice room or
whatever definitely and it's not like
it's not like we we came together as a
band
here's our set of rules that we follow
and regret eating a lot of it becomes
instinctual at a certain point
mm-hmm and that's I mean personally why
playing with Jed Nasir is so musically
rewarding because they are listening and
they are aware and whether they you know
they're whether we are thinking of like
now it's time for a subtraction method
or not sometimes it just feels like okay
we this needs space like right there's
too much tension built up it needs to
just dissipate now so right those kinds
of things are really important when
you're dealing with other musicians very
cool yeah and I still maintain that you
know one of the coolest things you can
do is drop out and if if you're in a
band or you do jam and you're thinking
like man if I drop out everyone gonna
stop playing and look at me that's
pretty easily avoidable you just go hey
guys like if I stop playing keep going
before the jam and then you're good
right and that could just be the coolest
thing you guys do you know what I mean
so see ya
we've got subtraction contrast matching
and the next thing I wanna talk about is
using less common rhythms now this is a
fairly that's a pretty broad statement
like use less common rhythms but what
would be the common rhythms I mean
that's gonna be different for everyone
but all I'm really asking you to do is
pay attention to what you always do and
what everyone else always does and just
register it as okay it's not good or bad
you don't have to continually play new
patterns constantly I was once obsessed
with like not repeating myself that's a
that's a depressing path to go down but
just know what you always do and start
to tune in to what your bandmates or
your your fellow musician your friends
that you play with what they always do
so that you can so that only so that you
can push yourself and them into new
territory I told the story in the course
that we did but there was a band that I
was in previously where one member of
the band brought a lot of the ideas to
the table for the writing process and
then we realized at the end of a
four-song EP that all the songs were
within to be at the end of each other so
that's a classic
example of people having habits that
they're not necessarily aware of and
that's a perfect opportunity for someone
like you who's a little bit more in tune
with those things to say huh
that's really cool to add some like
significant variety to this album why
don't we slow that those chords down 20
BPM and now we're in territory that
we've never wrote in before and some
people will love that some people will
be resistant to that because their chops
might not work at a different tempo that
they're not used to but it's just an
important thing to do so lot in in the
same vein as drummers we all have myriad
habits and when I talk about playing you
know unique rhythms a great example to
start with is that if you asked like a
hundred drummers to just play any groove
like 90 of them will play something that
starts with that because it feels good
to play it's something we learn early on
drums we put that kick drum before the
backbeat so we don't have to put a ghost
note there's a lot of reasons that it
makes sense but it's important to know
okay like that's the most common rhythm
in music and like give me you know 10
guitar players singer-songwriter guitar
players and bring in a song and they
usually start with blood right like some
rhythm of that sort couple dotted notes
in them so even just identifying that
alone is huge because like okay well
let's not play that rhythm let's play
any other rhythm and then we're good and
then the other thing anyone talk about
this here right yeah okay yeah perfect
so before we go to that so so there's
that so be aware of what there is what
you always do and try to move away from
it if necessary and then there are just
I recently just stumbled upon this
treasure trove of patterns that are all
super cool inspired by a friend of mine
named Ian Barnett it was a great drummer
that everyone should check out it's
really into this type of music called
footwork where there's like a lot of
like
there's a really active kick work and
these really odd kick pattern rhythms
and I what I've realized in analyzing
some of it is that a lot if you just
take this pattern and permutate it on a
grid you're gonna have seven patterns
that you probably have never ever played
weirdly enough and that are fairly
simple to understand but make what
you're doing sounds super unique all
right so the first permutation is and so
forth they're all pretty cool but you
can imagine if you take you know the
right hand of a parrot at all just the
first four notes start shifting that
you're gonna have the same phenomenon it
seems like oh these are rhythms I don't
usually play and then in line with that
I want to throw in this this idea of
extending your phrasing so this is
another this is another one he's like in
my opinion magical tips that just all of
a sudden like you have so much more
vocab than you might have realized I
want to demonstrate this point in 6/8
actually so if I'm playing in 6/8 all I
want you to try to do next time you play
drums or with a band is don't hit one
every time it might be worth practicing
a couple times before you go in with a
band but don't hit one every time
because 6/8 is one of those things that
we're all like man I'm cool in 6/8 you
know and then you start playing in 6/8
and you you know like two grooves and
you just can't escape them mm-hmm and
what we realize is that like what well
what I realized and listening to a lot
of people do this is that it's really
hard to not hit one and 6/8 because we
we we need it we
to know where one is because it's an odd
time in my opinion you know for for you
don't need it it doesn't matter we all
know where one is but if if I start
playing 6/8 I can be as creative as I as
I possibly can
and if I keep hitting one it all kind of
sounds the same listen no matter what I
do it feels like it's just the same
thing because you only have six beats to
work with if I only hit one every other
beat listen to how much it opens up the
space you could say okay if I hit one
every four bars now I have a four bar
phrase so that is just gonna open up a
whole bunch of doors for you creatively
because not only will you now have more
than twice as many options of melodies
to play your bandmates will have so much
more space to work with right way less
limiting mm-hmm
cool that's all I got for that one no
that's a great point I just love being
aware of what you commonly play but also
what your band also commonly plays -
yeah their go-to licks their go-to riffs
that they do you know this it's not just
you in a bad situation that you got to
worry about sometimes it's the whole
band the whole song yeah and what's so
cool what you'll find as well if you
play with any musician and playing
one-on-one like jamming one-on-one is
one of my favourite things to do because
there's no limits right like if we if
there's three of us we have to you know
determine what the chords are and kind
of like you follow each other down
whatever path we're gonna go down and
things have to be made a little bit more
obvious so that people can catch them
but if you're one on one drums and an
instrument that plays harmonies and
melodies then they can go anywhere they
want to go at a moment's notice
right and you can go or push it anywhere
you want to go at a moment's notice so
yeah the the art of you know reacting to
people and just listening is at the core
of everything here so yeah that's that
the next tool which we've kind of hinted
at here in there throughout this is
establishing roles and changing roles
and maybe changing roles that are
changing roles away from something
that's very typical right the typical
roles drum set keeps the beat plays the
back but you know two and four plays the
kick drum that matches a bass bass plays
the root notes rhythmically that matched
the guitar part who's playing the chords
or taking a solo or something so those
are like the super standard rules and
again they exist for a reason
because when we start playing we need
somewhere to start we need some kind of
guidelines but at some point in your
playing there's a point where you can
start to think like hmm I don't know if
I need to do all these things all the
time and there might be some gold just
on the other side of that mountain so
let's play a little bit of gorebyss
that's a good example
so you mean just establishing the rules
changing the roles up you're talking
anything goes up and and sorry how let
me explain so this song you'll hear Jed
play the chords which like like Jed's
part is very much so like what a piano
or guitar might more typically play
after essentially turns into a
percussion instrument and I'm playing
it's a callback to the tool that we just
talked about playing more unique rhythms
I'm playing some fairly unique rhythms
and it's actually one of the one of the
ones I was just talking about by
primatte ting that don't don't don't
don't one of the permutations is the is
the
of my group so cool and then within the
drug we can sort of nerd out drum wise
for a sec the roles here are usually
high hat keeps the time like I said snow
domes two and four
the only rule that I'm really breaking
kind of hard here is that the right hand
is actually gonna play a secondary
melody at least that's how I see it
underneath what Jed is playing so they
don't do two cat
don't don't don't do God don't do on the
tongue
so the orchestration is weird you're
kind of keeping time on a Tom and it's
rhythms that you don't usually hear and
it can be seen as a sub melody to the
more important one which is what Jed's
playing so all right let's hear it yeah
yeah doesn't a
[Music]
yeah and then gelatin 5000 that's a
that's a good example too
sure yeah let's play Jade 5k because
again here this is a song seed that
we're working on for our next album but
um again
Jed's handling it shows actually
handling a lot here more than based I
guess typically does he's kind of
handling the melody and a lot of the
rhythmic responsibilities in the
beginning - he's really like in a sense
like 80% of the music going on here and
then Asher and I are really just sort of
more texture layers more than anything
after it starts to develop a little bit
more than that but I'm sort of no longer
playing a beat at all I'm just a texture
here so I'm thinking like stay out of
the way kind of and at least it maybe
help it build a little bit but yeah
that's trying to if this one's in five
in case it's a little weird in the
beginning
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
right yeah so I mean that leads into
other things in the song but I mean we
can call that back to the web of intent
there and I'm thinking you know on the
soft allowed scale
I'm extremely soft and only getting a
little bit louder as it builds and then
I'm adding a little bit of busyness as
we go here I'm living like this
direction right
Astra's kind of doing the same thing and
Jed is really just holding it down but
yeah we've switched roles up there in a
way that that I think is sort of fresh I
mean you can't help it offer a fresh
perspective if you're doing that and
yeah not only just within the band
switching roles but even we talk about
more in the course which if you guys
will be releasing soon on drumming you
inside the members area but that talks
about this more in depth about even the
role as a drummer you know the roles of
what your hand and your bass drum and
your stairs should do so it's a very
cool tip experiment that with next time
you were at the band you know switch up
those roles
that's how creative unique songs come
about so they're not all the same right
oh cool one more - one more tool you got
you said um yeah the last ones the last
ones a quick one it's seek inspiration
and it seems a little obvious but I
think what's important to to to mention
here is that you know seeking implies
making some kind of effort a lot of
people sit and think that inspiration
will just strike at some point and I you
know you've seen time and time again
that you know if you have friends sort
of waiting for that to come
it really doesn't come and if you only
act in moments where you happen to be
super stoked for no reason then there's
gonna be few and far between the
opportunities that you that you have to
create something so what you're doing
when you're seeking inspiration is
looking for something that lights the
fire in you right so not waiting for it
to come but actively seeking the things
that make you excited there's a little
bit of you know the only thing I wanted
to mention about this is like seeking
inspiration doesn't mean you're copying
people's ideas like like
there's a song in the first album of
ours the first song called go on them
all that was inspired by a Zegna Rubino
song that sounds nothing like what we
were doing but me and Asher were jamming
that day he was like man even listening
his coolest song check it out and we
listened to it and it was indeed very
cool and the next thing we played was
this was the the seed that turned into
this song and thinking back to that song
there's really like the tone I mean what
was it about it that stuck with us it's
just like interesting rhythm like unison
wine yeah and then like a couple
displacements here and there yeah and
just like falls to the wall rock and
tell you yeah totally and and I mean
sticks out to me to like to sort of
tonal like indeed Tom you know I mean
this is definitely indie vibes of the
song and and we didn't all we took was
sort of the tone and this idea that
there's rhythms that were playing
together and made something completely
different so although it was cool to
have the that in like a duo setting yeah
you know cuz you're Venus is just her
rocking it out on keys and drummer yeah
it's a duo yeah that's really relevant
to I'll let you listen the album there
because I don't have that much time so I
won't play that one but yes seeking
inspiration is the last tool and doing
it actively and then taking you know
whatever you find super inspiring and
saying okay what are we going to take
from this right so you can't take all of
it but you could take the tone or you
could take the rhythm or you can take
the harmony and you can take whatever
you could take a piece of it and slow it
down or it could be at a tempo that you
just never play you know I got well
let's write something at this tempo
that's cool it's got this high-energy
vibe or whatever so seeking inspiration
is the last tool that loved it
tons of great tips there and the cool
thing about it is just watching you is
this is all kind of improv a lot of the
stuff the jams you guys threw at them
they're you know you can even see them
talking through a quartz we're gonna
play so it's cool seeing just from the
insider's view you know how you guys
kind of work and how these tools fit in
with the bank is you know one thing with
what we do at drum because we teach
drummers how to play the drums but you
need to take that to your band and
music with that and that's why stuff
like this is so valuable and you know
all this stuff that you were just
talking about did you know even if you
take one sliver of that and just apply
it to yourself as a drummer and then
maybe into a band setting and you can go
so far with it do you guys want to jam
something out for us while we're talking
about stuff out there yeah see if we can
this is this is not on your album just
to something you just gonna make up I
guess we made up right now I'm gonna
practice what we preach here let's do it
and again guys childish japes the name
of the band check out their full album
the first song that they played was on
that album and they're also gonna close
out with one of those songs on their
album as well but this is just an improv
jam
[Music]
you
[Music]
[Music]
you
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
nice very well done guys
nice yes I'm great maybe yeah it could
be cool too there was so much going
through my head that I was like I'd be
nice to tell them what we're thinking
right now while we were doing that yeah
do that
briefly what went through your mind um I
mean a lot of the things we talked about
and then a lot of tools that I really
briefly mentioned like building tension
and building suspense and then some kind
of release right and as a drummer one
thing that I am usually conscious of and
was hyper conscious of there is
committing to the instruments that
you're using and letting that become the
soundscape so like the last section ride
kick and snare with hi-hat keeping time
so every sound I add to that requires
more CPU power for you to process right
which sometimes is good but in this case
I just want to create this layer of
intensity that isn't taking a whole lot
of your attention it's just making you
feel a lot so I'm committing to these
instruments and just staying with them
and seeing what I can do with them then
there was another thing that that was
worth mentioning when we talked about
subtracting there was a I remember part
where dead dropped out and I was quite
busy and Asher was playing and then
there was a moment where I knew dad was
coming in because he looked like he was
coming in and what Jed came in I dropped
out for just a moment
right so just on one it was like that
together suit get to get there to get
did it today I got to get a ticket boom
and what that does is highlight the fact
that he is entering right so we're sort
of shifting the spotlight in a sense and
all these you know there's you know an
infinite number of things like that that
one could consider and you don't have to
be overly cerebral about jamming it
supposed to be fun at the end of the day
but the more you do it and the more you
think about what works and what doesn't
work the more you'll have these ideas as
things these ideas like at the ready you
know very useful that's cool just just
diving into your brain there while
you're doing that it's
a really cool benefit for us to watch
and that sounded really cool so I'm like
you guys rehearse that before right so
that's really cool just to see you guys
impro something that comes together like
that so you have any last-minute tips
we're almost had our time here any
last-minute tips is it it is it a choice
between one more song and tips or can we
do below we're doing both
all right well quick tips quick tip last
things I wanted to tell people if you're
jamming if you're playing with people
don't be afraid to make big changes just
go ahead and change the time signature
in the tempo and then and just stop
playing you know do some crazy stuff
because there's a real tendency in
Johnston to kind of go
and then kind of Peter out so it's okay
to do that the next thing avoid lamb
grooves I know that's extremely general
but avoid the grooves you always play
try to get creative try to break the
rules avoid you don't have to avoid this
but if you're trying to write with a
band maybe a void like 10-minute guitar
solos right cuz that's not typically a
productive part of the writing session
people just get stuck in a groove
and someone starts soloing they're like
well like I guess we're soul going now
right so you don't have to do that
another thing is end of the jam right
there's so many times in my life where
all the good ideas were right at the
beginning it was really cool thing built
up and it was perfect and it was ready
to be done and then like 10 minutes
later we're still playing
kind of like BS stuff that you know we
thought might be cool or we're just kind
of out of ideas but no one's like got
any conviction to end it and it when
it's meant to end you can just stop
playing and be like it was cool and the
last thing is which was an idea that
Asher brought to my attention a while
ago when we were writing was to try to
improvise a song and try to consciously
you know play in a section change it to
a B section remember what the a section
wasn't go back to it have some kind of
song form and then at you know at the
end of when you know two or three
minutes long end it and you'd be
surprised at how good you are writing
songs when you do that I guess I got
anything else um one kind of general
thing to always think about and you
touched on a little bit with the
contrast but a great teacher of mine
once said you know always think about
you know what you're creating the need
for like if you're doing one thing for a
super long time that creates the need to
do the opposite of it right so that's
always a directional thing you can do
create the contrast within your own part
and also like think you know as a
producer which I do a little bit of as
well like try to think about the bigger
picture and you know if this one vibe
has been happening washy
let's say then try to do tight
afterwards you know create a contrast
bold moves we're advising it's the same
thing yeah it's possible though thank
you so much guys this is great just hear
you guys play and hearing your insights
and your Asscher as well and Jed you're
playing on the bass is great he was in
here jamming before we're live on the
drum kit he's a killer drummer too in
fact you guys are all great drummers
soon complain here mplet yeah all
berkeley students i guess that explains
it right Berthe learn drums everyone
learns drummer start with drums and
you're good anyway thank you so much you
guys if you're watching this live we're
trying to heavily get more into the
musical side of lessons you know we do
so many lessons on paradiddles and
technique and all that kind of stuff
we're trying to bridge that gap with
music and we have two sister sites i
guess you can call them sister sites we
have piano calm which is all about piano
and guitar lessons calm also known as
guitar EO both of those are very similar
what we do in drum you but they share so
many similarities and so i'm glad you
guys can come in here and share this on
drum yo and if you guys are guitars or
you know any guitarist friends in one
hour from now if you're watching live on
guitar lessons calm our YouTube page
Asher is gonna be live with the band
child√≠s japes and they're gonna do a
whole live stream with a lesson on
chords I believe quartz and Composition
which is gonna be awesome and if you
guys are drumming members here and
you're watching this in the archives
you're watching this on youtube and you
guys have guitarists friends and stuff
make sure you check that out
it will be on youtube eventually but we
have a whole website just like drum yo
for guitarists and featuring Asher and
Charles James anything else to add
anything that I'm missing before you
wrap up here guys and does it yeah cool
what was the first song you guys played
an open with just so we all know seed 73
yeah that's not a song game title oh
that's not on the Apple it's not on that
oh so you got a sneak peek of something
coming up yeah that'll probably be
second album very cool very cool well be
sure to follow child√≠s James online make
sure you follow JP Bouvet and I forgot
to mention this but JP V has made quite
a name for himself you won the Guitar
Center drum off in 2011 amazing amazing
video check that out you also
with some heavy hitters let me just
refresh my memory on the name sorry
Steve Vai Zakk Wylde and tosin Abasi
from Generation X yeah you're playing
with them quite regularly on tour with
them all the time so you've got them
quite a long way and I've been following
you for a long time so it's a it's an
honor to have you out here I appreciate
that
awesome ok so I'm gonna stop talking I'm
gonna leave and I'm gonna get you guys
to play one more song what is this song
called I came up with it yesterday we're
kind of like really committed to the
creative process so whenever we can be
playing new things and creating new
things that's what we're trying to do
put your money where your mouth is I
love it I love it well we're gonna hear
them jam one more tune and if you guys
are watching online checks out Romeo com
sign up we have a whole course that
dives into this and that from more of a
drummers perspective on creating unique
grooves it's really cool and with that
being said play us out